SECURITY UPDATE (October 9, 2026)

LocalLS supports SSH private-key authentication. A user identity key grants
login; a server host key identifies the server. They are different keys.

MIGRATE WITHOUT LOSING ACCESS
1. Update over the existing installation, keeping app data.
2. Connect with the existing credentials and verify the server fingerprint.
3. Open Settings → Security / SSH key (Russian UI: Безопасность / SSH-ключ).
   On Android this is inside application settings. Generate RSA 3072 or import
   an existing private key with its passphrase if encrypted.
4. On Windows/Fedora enable Save secrets in Connection and save settings first.
   Persistence requires working OS encryption. Otherwise generated keys remain
   only in memory until full exit. If the keyring is unavailable, import a key
   you already own and keep the original file protected with a passphrase and
   suitable filesystem permissions. Android uses Android Keystore encryption.
5. In Security enter the current server password in the one-time installation
   field and click Install key and verify login. Confirm host and account.
6. LocalLS appends the public key to ~/.ssh/authorized_keys, preserving existing
   entries, and sets .ssh to 700 and authorized_keys to 600. It opens a fresh
   key-only connection. Only after that succeeds does the client select key
   authentication and remove the stored password for this profile.
7. Reconnect, browse SFTP and transfer a test file.
8. Repeat for every device. Prefer a separate identity per device for revocation.
9. Verify after fully exiting and reopening LocalLS. Do not disable server
   passwords before this succeeds and you have another working way to access
   the server directly.

Key mode fails closed for a missing/wrong key; it never falls back to a password.
Password mode is available for an explicit migration while the server permits it.
Export .pub contains only public material. Public profile export does not transfer
private keys, passphrases, passwords or agent tokens. Create/import and enroll
an identity separately on the receiving device. Removing the local identity does
not revoke it remotely: remove its authorized_keys line while keeping other keys.
Uninstalling/resetting Android can destroy its Keystore identity; establish
another tested login first. Private-key export is not implemented in this release.

CONTROL AGENT: HTTPS
SSH/SFTP works without an agent. An independent agent provides SSH service
start/stop/restart, including when SSH is down. Agent 0.3 uses TLS 1.2+ and a
random Bearer token. Download LocalLS-Agent-0.3.zip separately from the new
release and extract it on the server phone. Back up the previous configuration.
In Termux run ./install.sh from the extracted folder. It preserves the existing
token, bind address, port and boot scheme, creates an RSA 3072 certificate and
prints its SHA-256 fingerprint. Never post the token output in logs or issues.
The installer does not restart an existing agent process. Stop that particular
old process using the existing method and start the updated one manually.
Do not run two agents on the same port or disturb the running sshd.
Keep the original agent port/token in LocalLS. In Security choose Check agent
HTTPS certificate, compare SHA-256 with the server, then confirm trust.
The bootstrap request sends no token. Requests are blocked until trust exists;
a substituted certificate also blocks requests. Check replacements independently.
Certificates expire after 365 days; renew in advance and confirm the new pin.
Self-signed TLS is trusted by the exact certificate fingerprint. Initial trust
still depends on your independent verification, even on a home network.
Old HTTP agents need explicit temporary compatibility; the app asks confirmation
because tokens then travel without TLS. This option is off by default. Keep it
off with a new HTTPS agent.

SERVER PASSWORD POLICY
This update does not automatically disable server passwords or modify sshd_config,
SSH ports or sshd startup mechanisms. A key-only client does not prevent another
client from authenticating with a password while the server still allows it.
After testing every identity, an administrator can separately enforce:
  PubkeyAuthentication yes
  PasswordAuthentication no
  KbdInteractiveAuthentication no
  AuthenticationMethods publickey
Termux usually uses $PREFIX/etc/ssh/sshd_config; Fedora uses /etc/ssh/sshd_config
and included files. Back up configuration, inspect Include/Match, run sshd -t
before applying, and inspect effective sshd -T settings for the target account
and address. Apply via the existing service mechanism with a backup session,
then test a fresh connection. Administrative privileges depend on the server OS.
Do not copy these settings blindly or close the only working session first.

NETWORK EXPOSURE
Outbound internet for server updates is different from inbound public access.
Moving SSH from port 22 to 8022 is not a substitute for keys and a firewall.
Avoid router port forwarding; check UPnP and IPv6 firewall rules. IPv6 may lack
NAT protection. For remote access prefer Tailscale with restricted grants/ACL,
verified devices and a protected account. Fedora's Open SSH firewall action
allows the service in the current zone; it does not automatically restrict it
to your home subnet. Review the zone, interface and allowed sources in Fedora.
This build environment did not verify the public reachability of your server.
Never publish private keys, tokens, personal profiles or agent configuration.

Detailed instructions for regular app functions follow.
======================================================================

LocalLS Fedora 0.9.5 — user guide
For Intel/AMD x86_64 desktop computers. Built and tested in Fedora 44.

WELCOME
Welcome to LocalLS!
LocalLS helps you work with your personal server and files over SSH/SFTP.
Connect from your computer to a working phone server, PC, Linux host or NAS;
browse folders, upload files, and download selected files to your own folders.
You can also prepare this Fedora computer as an SSH/SFTP server using a
visual wizard, then connect to it from LocalLS on Android or Windows.
The wizard uses Fedora's standard OpenSSH service and native authorization.
The current application interface uses Russian labels, explained below.

INCLUDED FEATURES
Two file panes: your local computer and the connected server.
Selections retained when browsing different server folders.
File attachments, upload/download queue, cancellation and transfer history.
Measured SFTP speed graph and remote server statistics.
Five color themes, three icon-button shapes, compact side settings.
Transfers continue while the window is minimized and the computer stays awake.
A separate section integrates an installed official Tailscale client.
A visual wizard manages this computer's existing Fedora OpenSSH service.
Export a verified server profile compatible with Android and Windows LocalLS.

1. PACKAGE AND INSTALLATION
Extract LocalLS-Fedora-0.9.5-with-guides.zip. The Fedora folder contains:
  LocalLS-0.9.5-Fedora-x86_64.rpm — the real installation package;
  INSTRUCTIONS_RU.txt — the Russian guide;
  INSTRUCTIONS_EN.txt — this English guide;
  BUILD_REPORT.md — actual build and test results;
  SHA256SUMS.txt — file checksums.
TXT documents use UTF-8 with BOM and work in text editors and Windows Notepad.
Open the RPM in a Fedora package installer that supports local RPM files,
and authorize the installation using your administrator credentials.
If the graphical installer does not accept it, use this installation command:
  sudo dnf install ./LocalLS-0.9.5-Fedora-x86_64.rpm
Run it from the directory containing the downloaded RPM; DNF resolves dependencies.
Launch LocalLS from Fedora's application menu after installation.
The RPM is currently unsigned. A checksum is not a publisher signature.
It is distributed through GitHub Releases, not an official Fedora repository.
The in-app server wizard does not require typing commands into a terminal.
Do not run the whole application as root or disable its Electron sandbox.

Requirements:
  Intel/AMD x86_64, graphical Fedora with polkit, systemd and DNF.
  Network access; internet access is needed for package installation.
  Administrator rights are required for server management operations.
  An available, unlocked system keyring is required to save secrets.
Build, RPM installation and graphical checks ran in a Fedora 44 container.
Physical GNOME/Wayland and KDE desktop sessions have not been tested.
The DNF wizard is not designed for Fedora Silverblue/Kinoite/Atomic.
Compatibility with other Fedora releases has not yet been confirmed.

2. CONNECT TO AN EXISTING SERVER
Open «Подключение» (Connection) in the side drawer.
Enter the server's local address, SSH port, username and starting folder.
Standard Fedora OpenSSH normally uses port 22.
An existing Termux/OpenSSH phone server commonly uses port 8022.
Use the actual account name for that particular server.
A folder of «.» means your SSH account's home directory.
Enter the server password, select «Сохранить» (Save), then «Подключиться» (Connect).
On first use, LocalLS displays the server's SSH host-key fingerprint.
Compare it with a trusted server source or a trusted exported profile.
Accept only a server you recognize. Passwords are not sent during the key probe.
A changed host key blocks authentication. Investigate whether the server was
reinstalled or the address changed before accepting a replacement key.
«Забыть доверенный SSH-ключ» (Forget trusted SSH key) permits a new trust check.
«Отключиться» (Disconnect) ends the current connection.

3. IMPORT AND EXPORT CONNECTION PROFILES
Connection settings include «Импорт профиля» (Import profile) and «Экспорт» (Export).
The localls-server-v1 format is compatible with LocalLS Android and Windows.
It contains address, port, username, folder and host-key fingerprint.
It never includes a password or agent token; enter the password on the receiving device.
An imported fingerprint requires confirmation of trust.
Profiles still contain network information. Share them privately with the intended
recipient rather than publishing personal profiles in an open repository.

4. FILES AND FOLDERS
Open «Файлы» (Files). One pane is local and the other is on the server.
Double-click a folder to enter it. The up button opens its parent directory.
The server path field can navigate to another accessible folder.
«Выбрать папку» (Choose folder) opens the native local-directory picker.
Access is limited to your account's existing permissions; LocalLS adds no root access.
Click a file to select it, and click again to deselect it.
Server selections remain selected while you browse other folders.
Select «Скачать» (Download), then choose any destination folder you can write to.
When local names collide, a numeric suffix is added instead of overwriting a file.
To upload, select local files or use the attachment button.
Attachments are listed before transfer; use the send button to start uploading.
Navigate to the desired server folder before sending: it is the upload destination.
Replacing an existing server file requires separate confirmation.
Create folders, rename files, and remove files using the file-pane controls.
Rename and deletion require confirmation; only empty directories can be removed.
Recursive folder transfers and a built-in file editor are not included yet.
Prepare an archive separately when you want to send a folder tree as a single file.

5. TRANSFERS, SPEED GRAPH AND BACKGROUND WORK
«Передачи» (Transfers) shows the queue, progress and finished records.
The graph uses speed actually measured during SFTP transfers.
An idle graph shows zero; it is not a network bandwidth benchmark.
You may minimize LocalLS while a transfer is running.
«Свернуть в фон» (Minimize to background) and the window close button minimize
rather than stop the running client and its transfers.
In GNOME, restore it from the application overview, or launch LocalLS again.
Desktop environments supporting a tray also display a LocalLS tray icon.
A GNOME AppIndicator extension is not required to recover the window.
For a complete exit, use «Выйти из LocalLS» (Exit LocalLS) in settings or the tray.
An active transfer requires confirmation before exit interrupts it.
Shutdown, logout, suspend and network loss can interrupt the application or connection.
The client is not a permanently running system service.
Finished transfer history is stored locally and restored after relaunch.
Automatic resume of an interrupted transfer across application restarts is not included.

6. MAKE THIS FEDORA COMPUTER A SERVER
This wizard manages the computer where LocalLS is currently running.
Open «Настройки» (Settings) → «Этот компьютер — сервер» (This computer is a server).
The status shows OpenSSH installation, sshd.service state, autostart,
your current Fedora username, and available IPv4 addresses.
Choose «Установить OpenSSH» (Install OpenSSH) if the package is missing.
LocalLS invokes native DNF; polkit asks for administrator authentication.
Installing openssh-server does not replace your existing SSH configuration.
Choose «Запустить SSH» (Start SSH). The existing sshd.service is used.
No second SSH daemon, custom agent, or competing startup mechanism is added.
«Включить автозапуск» (Enable autostart) enables that same service at boot.
«Убрать автозапуск» (Disable autostart) reverses this choice.
«Перезапустить SSH» (Restart SSH) restarts the service, not the whole computer.
Restarting may disconnect existing SSH sessions.
«Остановить SSH» (Stop SSH) stops access; it does not power off the computer.
Installing LocalLS alone does not start OpenSSH or open a firewall port.
Each administrative action requires your in-app confirmation and OS authorization.
Canceling authorization does not count as a completed action.

The server uses your existing Fedora account password.
LocalLS neither creates nor replaces that password.
«Пароль учётной записи» (Account password) opens the OS account settings.
If the account has no password or server policy prohibits password authentication,
configure the account or policy using normal Fedora administration tools.
The local-server wizard checks passwords; the normal client supports private-key login via Security.

Verify access and export:
  1) Enter the actual local SSH port, normally 22.
  2) Enter your Fedora account password for this check.
  3) Choose «Проверить SSH-вход» (Check SSH login) and confirm the fingerprint.
  4) LocalLS really connects to 127.0.0.1 and verifies SFTP access.
  5) The password input is cleared and this check password is not saved.
  6) Choose a reachable IPv4 address and export the password-free server profile.
Export is enabled only after successful login verification.
The loopback check verifies the service and account, not remote firewall/router access.
After importing the profile on another device, test a connection from that device.
A local address requires network access between the phone/PC and Fedora.
After changing Wi-Fi, refresh the status and export the new address.

7. FIREWALL AND PORTS
«Разрешить SSH:22» (Allow SSH:22) adds firewalld's standard ssh service
to both runtime and permanent rules in the default zone.
«Закрыть SSH:22» (Close SSH:22) removes the same permission from that zone.
These actions do not change the SSH listening port or open arbitrary custom ports.
If your network interface uses a different firewall zone, manage that zone with OS tools.
If SSH already uses a custom port, enter it for verification and configure firewall
rules using Fedora tools. Existing sshd_config is preserved.
If firewalld is absent or inactive, the operation reports a failure.
LocalLS does not start firewalld automatically or reset your existing firewall rules.
Use Tailscale for remote access instead of exposing an SSH port through your router.

8. VPN / TAILSCALE
Open the separate «VPN / Tailscale» section.
Official Tailscale must be installed on this computer and on the other device/server.
«Открыть / установить Tailscale» (Open / install Tailscale) opens the official Linux
installation page, or an official sign-in link when the installed client requires login.
Install Tailscale and authorize your account according to the provider's instructions.
The switch runs tailscale up/down with native polkit authorization.
The first connection may require a browser: use the Open / install button to sign in.
Initial authorization waiting is bounded; without login the connection will not enable.
Select «Обновить статус» (Refresh status) after authorization.
Status comes from the real installed client, not a simulated VPN state.
Enter the server's 100.x.x.x Tailscale address or MagicDNS name, choose the VPN route,
and save. This route applies to the next SSH connection.
Disconnect and reconnect after changing the route.
Both devices must belong to your tailnet and be allowed by its access controls.
LocalLS does not provide a separate VPN service or bypass Tailscale restrictions.
Local Wi-Fi remains available and the original local address is not replaced.

9. WI-FI AND APPEARANCE
Settings → «Wi-Fi этого компьютера» (This computer's Wi-Fi) opens native
GNOME or KDE network settings. Enter the network and password in that OS window.
This changes the current computer's network, not a different remote server's Wi-Fi.
If the system settings module is unavailable, use Fedora's normal Wi-Fi menu.
Changing networks may interrupt a connection; reconnect afterward.
Themes include light violet, dark violet, ocean, forest and amber.
Icon buttons can be rounded, square or circular.
Save settings to retain appearance after relaunch.

10. SECRETS AND TROUBLESHOOTING
Passwords are saved only with available system encryption through Electron safeStorage.
If an unlocked system keyring is unavailable, saving is disabled.
Secrets stay in application memory until exit instead of plaintext TXT or JSON files.
Host-key fingerprints and ordinary connection parameters are saved without passwords.
Do not enable password storage on someone else's computer.
Server rejected login: check username, password and server authentication policy.
SSH port unavailable: check the service, IP, port, firewall and network access.
Access denied: choose a location allowed by your account permissions.
System action failed: check polkit, service state, internet access for DNF,
and installation/running state of firewalld or Tailscale for their respective actions.
Never put passwords, tokens, private keys or personal profiles in public issues.
A useful report includes Fedora/LocalLS versions, the action and a redacted error.

11. REMOTE ADMINISTRATION AND TEST LIMITS
«Управление сервером» (Server management) connects to an already installed,
independent remote agent using its own address, port and token.
Ordinary SSH/SFTP file access does not require that agent.
The local Fedora wizard uses systemd directly and does not require a remote agent.
Remote power-off/power-on of a phone or PC is not implemented.
Physical GNOME/Wayland, native polkit approval, Wi-Fi switching and an authenticated
Tailscale session were not tested in the container; see BUILD_REPORT.md.
Android and Windows remain separate downloads with their working builds preserved.

Project: https://github.com/grigorywork/LocalLS
Fedora release: https://github.com/grigorywork/LocalLS/releases/tag/v0.9.5
