LOCALLS FOR WINDOWS — DETAILED USER GUIDE
Application version: 0.1.0. Document date: October 8, 2026.

WELCOME TO LOCALLS!

Open your personal server from your computer and work with files in two panes.
LocalLS helps you send photos, documents and other files to your server,
download them to a Windows folder of your choice, and follow queue progress
and transfer speed. Use your local network at home or a configured Tailscale
connection away from home. Choose a theme, save your connection and minimize
to the system tray while transfers continue. You need an existing SSH/SFTP
server to get started. This Windows version is a client; it does not turn
your PC into a server. Files move between your devices. LocalLS does not
provide its own cloud storage service or require a subscription to one.

1. CONTENTS OF THIS FOLDER

LocalLS-Windows-0.1.0-with-guides.zip contains a Windows folder with:
  LocalLS-0.1.0-Windows-x64-Setup.exe — the installer;
  INSTRUCTIONS_RU.txt — the Russian guide;
  INSTRUCTIONS_EN.txt — this guide;
  BUILD_REPORT.md — build results and checks actually performed;
  SHA256SUMS.txt — file checksums.
Double-click a TXT file to open it in Notepad. Use UTF-8 if another editor
does not display Russian text correctly. The current interface uses Russian
labels, quoted below. This English guide does not switch its interface language.
Documents are in the GitHub folder distributions/Windows; the installer
and ZIP are under Assets in release windows-v0.1.0. GitHub's Source code
archive contains source files, not the installer. Choose the with-guides
archive or the standalone EXE.

2. WHAT THE PC VERSION CAN DO

LocalLS Desktop connects over SSH/SFTP to an existing server, including
Termux/OpenSSH on Android. It provides two file panes, uploads and downloads,
selection across folders, folder creation, renaming and deletion of a selected
file, a queue, cancellation, history, measured speed graphs, themes and a tray.
Public connection profiles exported by Android LocalLS can be imported.
SSH service controls use an existing independent server agent.
VPN access uses the installed official Tailscale client.
Creating a server on the PC, an integrated text editor and recursive transfers
of entire folders are not included in Windows 0.1.0. Select individual files
inside a folder instead.

3. REQUIREMENTS AND INSTALLATION

Use Windows 10 or Windows 11 x64, with sufficient free storage and a network
route to the server. This is not a Windows x86 or ARM64 installer.
1) Download the ZIP and extract its Windows folder using Extract all.
2) Run LocalLS-0.1.0-Windows-x64-Setup.exe from the extracted folder.
3) Select an installation folder and complete the per-user setup wizard.
4) Launch LocalLS from its shortcut or the Start menu.
You may download the EXE separately; no archive extraction is then required.
The installer currently has no publisher signature. If Windows displays
a warning, verify that the file came from the stated GitHub release and,
if needed, compare its SHA-256 with SHA256SUMS.txt. Do not disable Windows
protection globally. Node.js, npm, Java, Git and compilers are not required
to use the ready-made application; they are development/build tools.

4. FIRST CONNECTION

The server must already run SSH with SFTP support. For local access, put
the PC and server on the same reachable network, then:
1) Open Connection ("Подключение") on Overview or use the top settings button.
2) Enter the local IP/hostname, SSH port, username and SSH password.
3) Server folder ("Папка на сервере") specifies the initial location.
   Leave its default value if unsure, or import a profile from the server.
4) Choose Save settings ("Сохранить настройки"), close the panel and choose
   Connect ("Подключиться").
Example settings: IP 192.168.1.82, port 8022, username u0_a606.
Another server may have different values. Enter only an IP or hostname
in the address field, without http:// and without adding :8022.
The SSH password is not the Wi-Fi password. After connecting, open Files
("Файлы") or Open files ("Открыть файлы"). Check server updates available
latency, uptime and disk figures; unavailable readings are not simulated.

5. HOST KEY, PASSWORD STORAGE AND PROFILES

On the first connection, compare the SSH fingerprint with the server and
confirm trust. A changed trusted key blocks login before the password is sent.
Do not forget the key just to remove an error: first establish whether the
address or server changed. After a verified server reinstallation, use
Forget trusted SSH key ("Забыть доверенный SSH-ключ") and verify the new
fingerprint on the next connection.
Passwords and agent tokens remain in memory unless Save secrets in Windows
protected storage ("Сохранить секреты в защищённом хранилище Windows") is enabled.
Saved secrets use OS-backed encryption when available. If system encryption
is unavailable, persistent secret storage is disabled.
In Connection, choose Import profile ("Импорт профиля"), select your server's
LocalLS-server.json, verify its key and enter the password separately.
Import changes the profile; review its address and Local/VPN route.
Export ("Экспорт") saves a public profile without a password or agent token.

6. TWO PANES AND FOLDER NAVIGATION

The left pane is This computer ("Этот компьютер"); the right is Server
("Сервер"). Choose folder ("Выбрать папку") selects a local browsing root.
Double-click a folder to enter it. Up ("Вверх") opens its parent; local
browsing is limited to the selected root. Use Choose folder again to browse
another location on your computer.
On the server, enter a full path and press Enter or click the arrow.
The SSH user must have permission to access the location. Refresh ("Обновить")
reloads lists. A single click selects or deselects an ordinary file.
Selections survive navigation between folders; the counter shows server
and PC selections. Clear selection ("Сбросить выбор") clears both panes.

7. DOWNLOADING FROM THE SERVER

1) Open a server folder and select files in the right pane.
2) Browse other server folders and select additional files if needed.
3) Click Download selected ("Скачать выбранное").
4) Choose a destination in the Windows folder picker. Any accessible folder
   can be selected, independently of the left pane's current folder.
5) Review Transfers ("Передачи") and wait for Done ("Готово").
If a local filename already exists, LocalLS chooses a free numbered name.
Existing local files are not overwritten. One operation supports up to
1000 files. Only ordinary files are selected for transfer; whole folders
and symbolic links are not transferred in this version.

8. UPLOADING AND ATTACHMENTS

First open the destination folder in the right/server pane.
Method A — selected local files:
  Select files on the left and click Send ("Отправить"). Those selections
  are immediately queued for the current server folder; check the path first.
Method B — the system file picker:
  With no files selected in the left pane, click Send ("Отправить") or
  Send file ("Отправить файл"). Choose local files, review attachments,
  and choose Send to current server folder
  ("Отправить в текущую папку сервера"). Unwanted attachments can be discarded.
If a filename already exists remotely, a separate confirmation asks whether
to replace it. Up to 1000 ordinary files are supported in one operation.
Open a folder and select its files instead of uploading an entire directory.
Successful jobs are recorded in history. Fix the cause of a failed transfer
and submit it again; byte-offset resume after restarting the application
is not provided by this version.

9. CREATING FOLDERS, RENAMING AND DELETING

Use the New folder ("Новая папка") icon in the server pane and enter a name.
To rename, select one server file, use the rename icon, enter its new name
and confirm the native prompt. To delete, select one file, use the trash
icon and confirm. Server deletion is not a move to the Windows Recycle Bin:
verify what you selected. Recursive folder deletion is not enabled.
The SSH account may lack permission to create, rename or remove items in
a particular directory. Connection changes and some file actions require
transfers to finish or be cancelled first. The message
"Дождитесь окончания передач или отмените их" means an action is blocked
temporarily by the transfer queue.

10. QUEUE, HISTORY, SPEED AND SYSTEM TRAY

Transfers ("Передачи") shows queued jobs, progress, outcomes and errors.
Use a task's cancel button for a queued or active transfer.
The Overview ("Обзор") graph shows measured bytes transferred over the last
60 seconds. Zero speed when idle is normal; this is not an internet speed test.
Closing the window, minimizing, or Settings -> Minimize to tray
("Настройки → Свернуть в трей") leaves LocalLS in the system tray.
Transfers continue while the PC is awake and the network remains available.
Open the LocalLS tray icon to return; Windows may place it under the hidden
icons arrow. Choose Exit ("Выйти") in its tray menu to fully close the app.
Sleep, shutdown and fully exiting LocalLS interrupt active transfers.
History persists, but unfinished jobs are not automatically resumed from
their interrupted byte position after the next launch.

11. VPN / TAILSCALE

1) Install official Tailscale on your PC and server device.
2) Sign into the same tailnet and finish Tailscale's initial setup.
3) Open the separate VPN / Tailscale section in LocalLS.
4) Enter the server's 100.x.x.x IP or MagicDNS hostname.
5) Select the VPN / Tailscale route and save settings.
6) Reconnect: the chosen route applies to the next SSH connection.
The toggle controls installed Tailscale on this computer only.
Open / install Tailscale ("Открыть / установить Tailscale") opens the client
or installation page. Refresh status ("Обновить статус") checks real state.
Activate VPN on the phone and server separately on those devices.
To return to the home IP, select Local network ("Локальная сеть"), save and
reconnect. The SSH port and username remain the existing server values.
When using an exit node, allow LAN access in Tailscale if home addresses
must remain reachable. LocalLS is not a separate VPN provider.

12. SERVER CONTROLS

Server management ("Управление сервером") requires an existing independent
agent already installed on the server. Enter its port, typically 8787,
and valid token, save settings and choose Agent status ("Статус агента").
The agent token is different from the SSH password.
Start, stop and restart SSH are supported. Finish transfers first and
confirm the command. A stop/restart may require reconnecting afterwards.
Starting a stopped SSH service uses the agent, which must remain available
independently of SSH. These controls do not reboot or power off a server
phone, power on a switched-off device, or install a server on the PC.
Existing-agent documentation is in the source folder android/realme-agent.
Keep its token private and use a protected network for access from outside
your LAN. The existing sshd startup arrangement is not changed.

13. APPEARANCE, UPDATES AND UNINSTALLATION

Settings ("Настройки") provides light/dark violet, ocean, forest and amber
themes. Button shapes are rounded, square or circular. Click Save settings
to retain the selection after restarting LocalLS.
Before installing an update, choose Exit from the tray, then run the new
installer. Closing the window alone leaves the process running.
To uninstall, exit through the tray and use Windows's installed-app list.
User settings are stored separately and are not automatically removed
by the uninstaller.

14. TROUBLESHOOTING

Cannot connect: check IP, port, username, running sshd, selected route and
server network reachability. Guest Wi-Fi can isolate devices.
Server rejected login: verify the SSH password and save it before connecting.
After changing route or username, review the new profile's password.
No file list: check the initial server path and SSH-user permissions.
Download failed: check disk space and write access to the destination folder.
Transfer not starting: check connection and ordinary-file selections, not
folders or links; retry after fixing the queue error.
Tailscale unavailable: open the official client, verify login and status.
Agent error: check its separate port, token, route and running agent process.
Host key changed: establish the cause and verify the new fingerprint first.
For support, provide LocalLS and Windows versions, the action and ordinary
error message. Never share a password, agent token, vault file or private key.

15. CHECKSUM AND LINKS

Original installer SHA-256:
a9fd290dcd936da037b02ffa354654d9db1f6a8fe5ad3403cccf92b0cdb7ea1b
In PowerShell, from the installer folder, run:
  Get-FileHash .\LocalLS-0.1.0-Windows-x64-Setup.exe -Algorithm SHA256
Compare Hash against the value above or SHA256SUMS.txt.

Project: https://github.com/grigorywork/LocalLS
Windows release: https://github.com/grigorywork/LocalLS/releases/tag/windows-v0.1.0
Documents: https://github.com/grigorywork/LocalLS/tree/main/distributions/Windows
BUILD_REPORT.md records checks actually performed. The installer and its
contents were verified; installation and runtime on a physical Windows PC
were not tested in the build environment. This guide describes released 0.1.0.
